we have today mike lewis he's a research
scientist at facebook ai research
working on natural language processing
so previously he was a postdoc at the
university of washington
and working with luke zettelmoyer
and on the search based structure
prediction
he completed his phd at the university
of edinburgh
and based on combining distributional
and logical approaches
to semantics he has a mastery degree
from the university of oxford and won
the best paper award on
eml em nlp in 2016.
so uh without further ado let's get
started with today's presentation
okay well thank you very much for the
introduction of radio and replacing me
to turk
um so yeah this lecture just wants to
try and give a
high level overview of how deep learning
is used for
natural languages processing these days
so i think it's per se it's been really
dramatic progress in nlp in the last few
years
with the playing deep learning um so
these days i mean you can get machine
translation systems which will produce
translations which
blind human narrators prefer the ones
produced by professional translators
um you can make some question answering
systems that you ask them a question
give me wikipedia
and they'll give you answers that are
races more accurate than the ones that
people will give you
i could like have language models that
can like generate
uh several paragraphs of fluent text
and for all of these things if you'd
asked me like maybe five years ago i'd
have told you
there's absolutely no way any of this is
possible in 2020
but um there seems to be a few
techniques that have been introduced
that have really
made dramatic differences and one really
nice properties actually
you can achieve all of these things with
fairly generic models so
all the models for all these tasks
actually look very similar
uh there's just a few high-level
principles which are really useful
um so i'm gonna be covering quite a lot
ground on this quite quickly
so please interrupt me often with
questions
um right so
yeah um also one thing i should say is
that with all the progress we've been
seeing
in nlp uh probably a lot of stuff i'm
going to tell you right now is going to
be out to date in a year or two i mean i
hope
we continue to make progress and stuff
continues to
be out today so as well as like
explaining some of the models we're
using i want to try and sort of give you
some intuitions about what kinds of
principles are working out well
which will hopefully have a bit more of
a shelf life
okay so um the first
topic i want to cover this lecture is
language modeling
language modeling isn't necessarily a
useful task in itself but it seems to be
a really good
building block for introducing all the
techniques that we'll need later on
um so uh i don't know any of you seen
this before this is an example
from a language model called gpt2
which came out in 2019.
um so what's going on here is that we've
got
some humans played some uh introduction
here about um
scientists finally heard of unicorns of
the andes that apparently speak english
and then given that text they've asked
this language model to
write some more texts and stats of that
and
the text we get here is actually quite
impressive like everyone was really
shocked that language roles could work
this well
uh last year so you can see um
the convenient text seems actually quite
plausible for a news article about this
it's um
talk to me talk about unicorns um
the text is very fluent grammatical it's
not really any flaws there and
it seems to like invent quite a lot of
details like the name of the scientists
who discovered them
um obviously all this is complete
nonsense nothing here is true
but um also
none of this will look like anything the
model was ever trained on like i'm
pretty sure
this paragraph over his unicorn has like
no
neighbors anywhere on the internet this
is all completely new language but it's
all
actually quite high quality text
um i'm not going to read all this out
but like if you read the rest of the
article that wrote then
um there are some flaws but they're
quite hard to spot and generally
uh this seems to be quite a good
language model
so i'm gonna try and show you like the
kind of techniques you need to actually
build the lines model that works as well
all right so um
[Music]
very briefly what is language model so
lines model is just a basically density
estimation for text
so we're going to assign a probability
to
uh every possible string and hopefully
when well puts more probability on like
strings which are fluent english than
other strings
um so how do we model this density well
um obviously
there are quite a lot of possible
sentences
exponentially many so we can't just
predict classified suits directly
um there are different techniques you
can do for this but the one i'm going to
talk about is the one that's most
popularly used which is
basically to factorize this distribution
using the chain rule
um so here all we're going to do is
um just fractionation to say it's going
to predict the first word then click
second word given the first then
the third given the previous two
um this is an exact characterization it
doesn't cost us anything to do
like this um so really what we turned is
the density estimation problem into a
series of classification problems
these classification problems are the
form given a bunch of texts predict the
next word
and that's going to be a theme through a
lot of techniques we have in this talk
so more concretely we have this uh from
this
example i showed you before we got this
um string the model output so like the
scientists
name the population after the distinct
detail on orbits and you've got to
predict the next word
and uh the correct word in this case is
unicorn
okay so um
at high level all these language models
look something like this basically we
input this text into a neural network
somehow
the neural network will map all this
context onto a vector
this vector represents the next word and
then we're going to
have some big word about matrix
so our um word evading matrix will
basically contain a vector for every
possible word model knows how to output
and then all we need to do is compute
the similarity by just doing a dot
product between
the context vector and each of these
word vectors
and uh we'll get a likelihood of
predicting the next word
then we'll just train this model by
maximum likelihood in the obvious way
okay so um
i mean the detail here is often we don't
deal with words directly we deal with
things called
sub words or even characters but um all
the modeling techniques remain the same
all right so um
how all the skill here is in this
context encoder
how do we build this um
so kind of the first approach people
took for this is um basically
convolutional models
so these convolution worlds kind of
encode this
uh inductive bias that language kind of
has this translation of variance
property
we should interpret a phrase the same
way no matter what position it occurs in
um so a typical model might look this
way basically first of all
for every word we'll just map it to some
vector um
which is just a lookup table into an
embedding matrix
so the word will get the same vector no
matter what context it appears in
and then we'll apply a bunch of layers
of the 1d convolutions followed by
non-linearities
until eventually we end up with some
kind of vector
representing that context which really
really hit the vector means what should
the next word be
um and these models were first
i think this is actually maybe the first
language model from bengio in 2003 both
best neural language model
um and uh these kind of convolutional
approaches were actually shared
if to work quite well by younger phone
in 2016 if you
reply kind of modern deep learning
techniques
um kind of the these models very fast
which is great
um actually speed is very impossible
language modeling because
typically we use huge amounts of
training data
um there's one come downside which is
that they're only able to really
condition on the certain reception field
um so in this kind of toy example uh
this word unicorn could only condition
uh the previous uh five words
uh because of the sort of kernel width
the number of layers we're using here
um obviously like realistic
convolutional worlds i have a much
bigger receptor field like this but
um natural language tends to have
extremely long range dependencies i mean
uh for an extreme example you can
imagine if you're like trying to build a
line total of a complete book
it might actually help you to be able to
condition on the title of the book at
all time steps and
obviously the title will be hundreds of
thousands of words
previously and it's quite hard to kind
of build this into
build a convolutional except to feel
it's big enough to do this
okay so how do we condition our model
context
i guess um the most popular approach
until a couple years ago
was uh what's called the current neural
networks
um this is kind of a conceptually quite
straightforward idea that basically at
every time set we're going to maintain
some state so have some state coming in
from the previous time step which
represents
what we've read so far we'll combine the
state with uh
the current word we've read and we'll
use that to update our states
and then we'll just iterate this for as
many time steps
as we need um
so i think this seems like quite a
natural model of reading i mean
i think for the most part people kind of
read left or right and maintain some
kind of states
as they go at least in principle as well
you can model unbounded contexts like
this so
um at least in principle like the
say the title of a book would affect the
hidden states
of the last word of the book
um in practice so there are some fairly
significant issues with this model
firstly um there's kind of
no free lunch here so by the time
the effect of trying to maintain
mistakes is we're going to compress the
whole
history of the document reading into a
single vector at each time step
and then you can't once you've read a
word you can never look at it again you
have to
memorize that and that means you have to
actually have to
cram a huge amount of information into a
single vector
and this is firstly it's a kind of a
bottleneck involved also i mean
there's a question about how much
information you can really store in one
vector but
also um it's kind of a practical
learning problem to you
that's the the um you get an issue
called the vanishing gradient problem
where
it means that you know every time you go
through one of these steps then
your you'll have some kind of
non-linearity which will mean
that the effective words in the past
will kind of get exponentially smaller
each time step
that means that once you have uh
no gradient for a particular word in the
past it's very hard to actually suddenly
learn later on
that word was impossible
um one final issue i want to mention
with
iron ends is they're actually quite slow
um the reason for this is particularly
training
um so the reason is that in order to
like um
build your state for a particular work
you actually have to
build your state for every previous word
first
let me essentially have a big for loop
that's going over your entire document
and the longer your document is the
bigger the full loop is
and it means you most of these
operations you can't actually confuse in
parallel you actually
have to do it sequentially and one gpu
hardware is
really based around being able to do
operations in parallel
um okay
so the convolutional network didn't have
this problem it's everything's in
parallel but
on the other hand you get a boundary
receptor field
and the recurrent models you have
in principle an infinite amount of
receptor field
but it's quite slow to train
so the solution to this is now what's
called the transformer
um which is the model that's used in old
state nlp systems these days
um so i'm going to go through
transformer in quite a lot more detail
when i did
the rnns or cnns
um transformers were introduced in 2017
by issues of swearing
and famous paper called attention is all
you need
and they really revolutionize lots of
energy
so i included a figure here from the
original transformer paper um
i know i'm confusing this to you
certainly when i first saw this figure
in 2017
it took me quite a while to get my head
around it and there's
quite a lot of details going on in these
boxes so i'm going to
just try to slowly drill into them
all right so what's going on um
basically you see we have this input
state this um
n times this transformer block and then
um an output phase
so this end times block thing just means
we're going to unroll
uh the same block with different
parameters
a certain number of times there so the
example has uh
six layers which i think had the
original transform paper which seems
quite cute these days
um these days people are training models
with billions of parameters and
uh many many dozens of layers
all right so i'm just going to drill
into this box
more detail so this can be the core of
the transformer the transformer block
you see it's actually incorporated two
different sub layers
[Music]
um which are both very important um
sub layer 2 is maybe the more
obvious one this is just a big
feedforward network
um it could be any mlp but it's
important it's actually quite
expressive um
and beneath we have this multi-headed
attention module
the multi-head attention is kind of the
key building block behind transformers
and why they work
um so
this subway is also connected by these
um boxes labeled adam norm
so the add purchase means this is a
residual connection
um which helps stopping the gradients
foundation large models
uh the norm here means uh lay
normalization
i'm not going to let it know in detail
here but
it's actually very important to make
these models work and there's actually
some specialties about
how exactly you delay normalization that
makes a big difference in practice
uh hey excuse me i have a question sure
uh
so this isn't immediately clear but
could you talk a little bit more about
just the intuition behind using
multi-headed attention as opposed to a
single head
i mean presumably each head learns
something different
and attends over its input differently
but
what's what was sort of the intuition
behind that
um i'll ask that question a bit i'm
going to go through
uh exactly what military detention is a
bit first and then i'll try and get some
iterations as to why this is a good
thing to do
uh if we don't answer your question then
please
follow me up in a few slides time thank
you
any other questions at this stage by the
way
uh i have a question uh used that the
the transformer module uses layer
normalization uh why can you provide
some intuition into why that works
better than
group normalization or uh normalization
um
i don't think i can actually give a very
satisfying technical answer to this and
i think a lot of this is quite empirical
as to why
in nlp we learn on works great and
computer vision bachelor works great
um a nice prosperous land on
is that it doesn't depend on the batch
dimension uh which
factional does so
uh in practice that's quite a big
advantage because
it's quite hard to train with large
batches with them very large models
yeah you can see people written lots of
papers and actually why things like that
even work for computer version i think
at least less how i read it's there's
still some debate as to actually what
it's doing
um maybe the intuition is the original
paperwork even batch normal works are
not great
um so personally i would say
this is one of the slightly unsatisfying
things in deep learning where
it works but it's a little bit unclear
why
okay thank you yeah maybe i was waiting
with a more satisfying answer than that
[Music]
another question is coming here is do
transformers share weights across
time steps like rnn lstms
uh yeah great question i should have
made that clear um yeah so
all these ways can be shared across
timestamps um
so it's kind of convolutional in that
sense um
so you have one block and you'll play it
every time step
uh you can actually also apply them use
the same weights and every layer and
that works quite well too
but it's not what people normally do
thank you
any other questions so far
i think those were the questions i read
so far on the chat
okay so uh what is this mysterious
multi-headed attention thing
um so here's another figure i don't know
if this helps um
uh so basically you can
compute these three quantities called um
b k and q here they stand for a query
key in value
respectively um
do the scale dot product detention
operation and then concatenate the
outputs
all right so drilling into this scale
dot product tension um
eventually we will run our boxes to
expand
um it looks something like this um
so we're going to do compute this query
and key
do a dot products and stuff max and use
this
as a way to some of the values i don't
worry that it makes sense i will
do more detail so let's look at this
example um
where the context here is let's say
these horns silver whites
and we're trying to create the next word
which in the example before was uh
unicorn
so um
for the word we're trying to predict
we're going to like compute this value
called the query
and for all the previous words we're
going to
compute the quantity called the key and
these are linear layers based on the
current states of this layer
um tomorrow we're going to be coding
this in in practice so we're going to be
seeing this
in like only the small details in the in
the code as well
okay so
um you can think of this query as the
model asking a question over here it's
context so far but it's going to help
you predict what the next word should be
so the query could be something like um
tell me what previous adjective is or
tell
me what the uh previous determiner is
um and
a disabler's word like these here
and then for the keys they're going to
be things that sort of
label the current word with telling you
some information about it so they could
be saying
this word is an adjective this word is a
determiner
this word is a verb something like that
or can be something more complex like it
could be like a
any true relation like co-reference or
something
so well completely as a
questions query and then it's going to
compute
just do a dot product with all of the
keys and use this to compute
and then you do softmax as well and this
is going to
induce a distribution over all the
previous words
so here you can imagine a query
something like telling me what
previous adjective is and the
attention will produce this kind of
distribution over
these three previous words it's going to
put most probability mass on either horn
or silver white
um
we're also going to compute this other
value this is the quantity called the
value
and we'll do that for all the previous
words as well
and maybe the value will tell you
something slightly more about what the
contents of the word is
and then i'm going to compute this
hidden state by basically marginalizing
out the
attention distribution so here this
hidden state is going to be a wasted sum
of the values
of all the previous words that's going
to be
wasted by the probability of that word
um so
that's basically what's going on the
left side of this figure here
i left out this detail about the scaling
escape that's just a
hack to make the gradients more stable
okay um but there's another detail here
which is that
uh that's kind of single-headed
attention i've described so far but
we're actually gonna do this thing
called multi-headed intention and that
basically just means we're gonna
compute the same thing with different
queries keys and values
multiple times in parallel
so this question before about like what
the intuition behind that is
um and really it's like you actually
want
let's create the next word you need to
know a lot of different things so just
this example before
um
uh let's see so let's say the next word
here should be unicorns plural
um today it should be unicorns i mean
you probably want to know both that it's
horned and silver white because
uh the conjunction of those makes it
more likely to be unicorn
but you also want to know that the uh
the determinant here was these
not a if it was like a horn syllable
white it'd be
unicorn singular the fact is these means
it should be unicorn plural so you can
plural agreements
so you actually need to like look at all
these three words at once to have a good
idea
what the next word should be a
multi-intention is a way of like letting
each word look at multiple previous
words simultaneously
a question here is why are we actually
uh in need of using the softmax
why do we use this yeah
it's a good question um
i think
firstly i mean housing on normalization
effect is probably good i mean
otherwise when you go to longer
sequences this uh
summation would get kind of bigger and
bigger the further you went through so
having a normalization
is probably good the normalization also
kind of lets the model um
discard information to you so it can say
this word
just isn't relevant um
which is good i think i have seen people
experiment with using things like really
use instead
so which kind of different different way
of discarding information but
i think the evidence is soft matches
work very best
uh another question sorry i may have
missed this um
the mask there in pink don't know what
that is briefly right mask is actually
important um
so
i'm going to say make a point first um
so one of the really big wins about this
whole
session of multi-headed attention is
that it's
extremely paralyzable um so now this
computation of queries keys and values a
given time step depends on
what you're doing at any of the other
time steps so
unlike your current network you can
actually compute all of these
simultaneously
um which plays very well with um the
kind of hardware we have these days
so not only are we going to put all the
different heads at once we're going to
compute all the time steps at once in a
single
forward pass um
so that's great except that
if you're competing all the time steps
at once there's nothing to actually stop
you
um words looking
at the future since like ultra
regressive factorization we're dealing
with here then
we only want words conditioned on
previous words
um but as i've spread them all so far
the words could look at future words too
which is
the problem because then they can cheat
and use themselves on future context to
predict themselves
so the solutions that here is um
uh so it's what we call cell potential
masking so a mask is just a
upper triangular matrix that sort of uh
has zeros and lower triangle and like
negative infinity in the upper triangle
and we're going to just add this to the
attention scores
and the effect of that is going to be
that um every word to the left has a
much higher potential score than
everywhere to the right so the model
will only end up practicing using words
to the left but this is deterministic
mask without trainable weights
um just values either zero or negative
infinity
uh so you'd only mask in case of an
application specific
training task correct if you had to just
build representations for example you
wouldn't need to ask because it wouldn't
matter
uh yeah that's a great question and so
we'll go to more general representation
learning later so
uh most where you just want a text
encoder you don't need to mask them
bidirectional context is absolutely
helpful um
in this case language modeling which
we're working through so far then
the mask is sort of crucial to make them
all mathematically correct and compute
the
correct factorization but yeah great
question thanks
okay um
okay so uh one other detail we need to
do to make all this work
is add something
should be input over positional writing
so
as i describe small so far it's actually
um it's doing a low bias model it knows
very little about language the inputs
could be anything and
it would work so um
in particular it's like i mean you can
model a set or a graph or anything like
this
it should be fine um but we know
i mean in language there are some
properties which are useful like for
example
um there's an ordering to words which is
really important to how you interpret
them
and this one doesn't actually know
anything about that and that's in
contrast to the convolutional worlds and
the parameters i showed you earlier
which
both have different ways of encoding the
order of text
um so one of the techniques that was
introduced in this paper was
called positional writing um the
different ways you can do this
they describe something in the paper
which is slightly weird actually i'm not
going to describe
but it works just as well to essentially
learn separate embedding for every time
step so for every positioning document
zero one two three four five
you just learn separate embedding and
then you add this to your input
so your input now is a summation of the
word vector and some kind of positional
vector
and it's very simple but it gives the
world kind of the order information it
needs and it
works great
okay so why are these models so good why
does everyone use them um
i think the really powerful thing about
the model is that
it kind of gives you direct connections
between every pair of words
so each word can can directly access the
hidden state of every previous word
um and
that's a contrast convolutional model
could maybe against the state of all the
words in this receptor field but nothing
further back in time than that
and our current model um
the state had to go through his
bottleneck of each time at each time
step so
um you can actually directly access the
previous words
beyond the like literally one previous
word anything further than the past
matter had to get somehow compressed and
you have lost information about this
for self attention you can in principle
put 100 attention on
any word in the distant past and see
exactly what was there
and this just makes it a really powerful
model it like avoids things like uh
issues like vanishing gradients
quite effectively
um and music can just learn very
expensive functions very easily
the other great thing about this is how
paralyzable it is i mean
so the one hand this model's doing quite
a lot of computation in that it's doing
uh this um so the self-tension operation
is quadratic
basically because every word can look at
every other word
and that sounds quite slow but the
really nice thing is you can do it in
parallel so
because all these operations are
independent to each other you just do it
as one big matrix multiplication so
even though sometimes you probably do
kind of more
add multiply operations and you would do
with the equivalent rnn
you can do all these operations um much
faster because you do them all at once
rather sequentially
so this is a really good trade-off
um i also want to quickly talk about
some other things that's great
the stuff like um multi-headed attention
and additional embeddings and stuff so
i've got all the attention
when transformers were first released
but transformers
also came along with a whole bag of
other tricks as well and these tricks
were all
actually really important to make this
stuff work
um and sometimes this paper really kind
of modernized and healthy i think
um so for example i've mentioned about
this useful layer normalization before
the light on it's really helpful
um they also have doing these things
like um
these learning rate schedules so uh for
whatever reason to make transformers
work well
uh you have to sort of linearly warm up
your learning rate from
some from zero to your goal learning
rate over
several thousand steps um
and people do do warm learning rates
warm-up learning rates in other settings
but transformers really really need this
to work
um also the things that the
initialization
actually really do matter with these and
some initializations don't work
um and they're throwing these other
tricks like a label smoothing at the
output which
uh again wasn't invented in this paper
but it turns out
quite helpful for the cast like machine
translation
all right um so to
give you some idea how well these things
are working these models described so
far um
are some results on a lime dwelling deck
benchmark um
so the number on the right is what's
called complexity which is a
measure of the likelihood of held out
data and here lower is better
um so let's see you see that an lcm for
2016 gets complexity of
uh 48 um
you see that yandere fans convolutional
models uh from
2016 uh doing quite a bit better at
about 20 about 37.
uh also people played around with a
whole bunch of
r m runes like you speak dozens of
papers on how you make
variations in lstms and some of these
getting low 30s as well
but then when you introduce transformers
you get a really big jump down to
go to 18 and 20.
and in terms of language modeling that's
a really enormous geometry performance
um i should say these games we saw were
particularly
large on uh kind of long context
language modelling so blinds modeling
where
so there's some benchmarks where you
just get a single sentence to predict uh
on this task you actually get a whole
wikipedia article so
uh potentially thousands of words and
the
transformers really shine on this what
you've got thousands of words context
model and you need to
retain information across all of them
okay um
uh yeah serious quick comparison just to
visualize how transformers and lstms
look
which it's going to indicate some points
of shame before so in the lstm
you have a lot fewer connections between
the words like everything's kind of very
sequential left to right
and transform but you don't have any of
this um
so every word is directly connected to
every other word
um i guess you should say as well
in some senses maybe slightly unnatural
well for reading so it kind of suggests
that however as well as reading text and
every time it reads a word it goes and
really reads
every other word very quickly
um but it's very effective
okay one other good thing about
transformers is they do scale up
extremely well
so um with tasks like language modelling
you get essentially infinite amounts of
data because
it's just hundreds of billions of words
out there it's far more than you'd ever
need
uh that means to actually fit this kind
of distribution you need
very big models and you just keep on
adding transform
parameters transformers they keep on
just working better and better
uh the examples i showed you forward
from this gpt2 model with two billion
parameters which was
uh quite big for 2019 but apparently
2020 or up to
17 billion and there are rumors 100
billion parameter models will be coming
along
soon uh excuse me i have a question
uh you said transform is a really good
for scaling up
i was just wondering in a language
modeling task if we have like
say a ten thousand twenty thousand word
document in an
rnn we can just
insert a word step by step and we
wouldn't need
uh a lot of memory per se like
for for a transformer we need to have a
bath size of 10
000 wouldn't we like uh like the the
length of the sequence but if we have a
really long sequence
can we model these long term
dependencies
yeah that's a really great question um i
actually meant to mention this point
so um
two things they want to say so firstly
you're absolutely right the
self tension is because of quadratic
the expense obviously grows super
linearly and that
is a problem in practice it means
um so mostly
transformers do 512 token contacts
windows which is fairly affordable for
gpus
i love these language models to do more
than that let me bottle a few thousand
tokens
um which is kind of limits what we can
do um
but it's definitely the case that a
vanilla transformer can't model say
a 50 000 word book at all
um there it's like this whole
cartridge industry recently building
various transformers which
can do long sequences um it's very hot
topic right now
um there's most things you can do but
one kind of thing you do is like if you
replace
self tension with something like nearest
neighbor search
uh you can do the self attention
uh subway driving time and that makes it
faster
um
there are also versions that try to do
kind of sparse attention where like you
can't attend to every previous word
directly but
you kind of have some dilated
uh set of previous words you can look at
and you don't get quite a direct
connection to every word but you can
sort of guarantee that you have short
paths across every word
um there are also things like compressed
transformers we try to um
multiple night and total and to sort of
uh compress the pre little distant past
into
shorter representations um
okay so you brought up the question of
rnn so at impress time absolutely in our
nanky model
infinite context where there absolutely
no additional cost
which is great i mean they can't put
like a million words and output
really first just fine
um well the question is actually isn't
using this context and um
that's probably it's not so at training
time
um you can't do this the training time
you actually have to back propagate
through
what's what's called back relations
through time where the lcm would
um
have to give modern line contacts like
grading will have to propagate all the
way back through the
sort of all the recurrent steps to make
a difference to the distant past there
uh in practice firstly the grading will
vanish like
well before you hit a thousand steps and
also
this is very expensive so this is a
training time system for free
and this back propagation operation will
get more and more expensive the longer
sequences
you're modeling so that means you can't
actually really learn to
uh well this is the past even
interesting it's not expensive you just
wouldn't
know what to do with this any practices
you probably just forget it anyway
because the
uh you can't remember that much data
once
um all right one more quick point in
that um
this is interesting uh i guess one case
where they'll
where the rnas do have an advantage is
on certain algorithmic tests
um so if you aren't linked language
let's say you're i'm doing something
like
edition or trying to like model a parody
of a string um
[Music]
so if you use string of like zeros and
ones and ask you either an even number
of
ones or not um in those cases
um you basically do actually want to
apply literally the same operation every
time step
and you can you don't actually have to
have much memory because i mean
your state really just needs to be a
zero or one
in this case the uh the rnas actually do
work very well because you can train
them on short sequences and then they'll
shoot
like great generalizations or long
sequences all these kinds of toy
problems
and actually on tray but i imagine the
transformer would actually find it much
harder to get that kind of
generalization
uh that only really applies to these
kind of algorithmic problems in terms of
modeling natural language then uh
yeah it seems like various transformers
are going to be much more effective than
recurrent nets
thank you that was really helpful
um any other questions
i've been addressing the questions i
could uh via text
so i think it's we are all good right
now
okay all right so
um next time we want to cover is uh
what's called decoding or interference
flying to models so
uh between this line as well the
slightest model puts a
hopefully probability maths on things
which good english and
uh their probability on grammatical and
nonsensical things um
but if you want to like create these
samples like i showed you before and how
do we actually
generate stacks
um so often we think about for inference
with the graphical model what we care
what we'd like to do is find the max
server by creating sensors which
maximizes
large world's probability um
unfortunately there's um as i mentioned
before there's quite a lot of english
sentences
that are possible and we can't just like
score them all to kind of max
um also these models don't really
uh there's not much to do with dynamic
programming here so
sometimes you can't find the max of
overexponential structures when you
have a model that factorizes somewhere
that lets you build a dynamic program
which lets you kind of share state
across different hypotheses um
but these molds don't be composed in a
friendly way so
kind of whatever choice make the first
word could affect all the other
other decisions
all right so must given that
uh one thing to do is do greedy decoding
um this is where we're just
gonna take the most likely the first
word and then given
that word pretty much like second word
uh guess was like a third word
um that's okay
but it's um there's no guarantee that's
actually gonna be the most likely
sequence you want to output because if
you have to make a
bad step at some point then you've got
no way of backtracking your search
to undo any previous decisions
um this ledger says that exhaustive
search is impossible
um and kind of hits middle ground of
what's called beam search
um so being searched is a way of trying
to keep track of
an n-best list of hypotheses
and then we're going to
uh just every time step try and keep
track update this list
with uh you as we've added
uh this may be easy to show you an
example um this slides from abigail c
at stanford um
so
uh we start we output let's say
we have the size of two well i'll put
these two possible words these are
these are two most likely words
now for each of these words we're going
to generate um
work out what our tumors like the next
words that
so obviously with io that does affect
what the next word should be
and we'll come with different hypotheses
for each of these
um
and then every time we're going to kind
of compress these down to
a list of uh two that we're going to
continue pressing
so we're looking for the lowest total
sum is it correct
uh yeah so these are
log likelihoods so
um we actually want the highest sum if
that makes sense which should be
where zero would be a probability one
oh yeah
so every score is going to be less than
zero but we're going to find the
secrets with the whether some of the
scores is
the highest
does that make sense it is so sorry yeah
i got the
the sign flipped i was many like in
magnitude we tried to get the smallest
number in magnitude uh
as well as the magnitude yeah sure sorry
sorry maybe this is not the most best
way to do this okay
how d does the um does this like tree
go into the beam search
when do you stop looking for um like
candidate sequences i guess
um all right so we basically
will detail our hepatologists we have
this like end of sentence token
and in the sense token means once you
once you output that then you
this hypothesis is finished um
and the aim is to find complete
hypotheses so from from a start to the
end token
that have the highest possible score
um so
um we'll just keep on generating you
hypotheses
um
uh there's no possible new words for
that that would be
the k complete hypothesis we have still
okay cool there's another question here
why do you think in nmt very very large
beam size
will most often result in empty
translations
ooh uh great question um i have opinions
on this
um so
um
the research is good and since it's
guaranteed to give you
a higher scoring hypothesis than
the uh greedy search i mentioned in the
previous slide
but it's kind of a catch here which is
that we're not actually
um at training time we're typically not
using a beam
so
um at training time we normally just use
kind of the ultra regressive
factorization i showed you before
where like given the sort of n previous
correct
outputs predict the n plus first word um
what we're not doing is
exposing the model to its own mistakes
in it so when you do beam search
um you can get all kinds of nonsense
showing up in your beam for whatever
reason
because if you have a very big beam then
probably some of it will be garbage and
in these garbage states the model has no
idea what to do because there's never
training the situation
um so it's kind of reasonable to expect
your model to generalize wealth like
making great predictions
for some completely nonsensical series
of words which is like
a very perfect training distribution and
in this case the model can
do all kinds of weird and uncerebral
things like maybe they put a very high
probability on something else
um
very kind of a classic example this i
don't know if he's i don't have one here
but
you may have seen his lines walls get
stuck in these feedback loops where they
end up just like repeating the same
word or phrase infinitely many times i
think it's kind of example this where
once the mods like start going into this
kind of loop then
it doesn't really know what to do and
the easiest thing for it to carry on
doing is
just keep on looping um
so yeah i think
at least you mentioned being searched is
one of uh
not exposing the model to its own
mistakes at training time
so it just it put actually puts a bunch
of probability amounts and all kinds of
things it shouldn't do
um kind of the obvious solution to that
is like why don't you
have a beam at training time um
[Music]
there's uh and the short answer that is
because it's expensive
uh if you guys go around this whole
inference procedure
a training time that firstly gets rid of
all the nice parallelism but we
have the transformer and introduces all
the search
and also gives you many more things to
score for
every trading example
so in practice people tend to just
ignore this problem and train
create a big model for as long as they
can like exposing like nice fast
parallels and you get from this
autoregressive version and then a test
site people will often
choose the size of their beam to get the
best performance so
uh i think that translation like
increasing the beam
normally helps up to a point then makes
basically worse again we started
covering
uh these weird degenerate degenerate
outputs
um but yeah that's just the unsatisfying
thing people
have to do sorry that's quite a long
answer that answer your question
i think uh i think this student i will
see now what the student says
like uh that was a question from a
student
and there is another question a small
one on this current slide
why the why is the a and one in green
on the right um
um i could admit i don't know
i stole this size from abby um
i'm not quite sure what point she was
trying to make there okay
it's okay
oh okay the point actually someone
answer because they are interchangeable
regardless of the the the the one you
pick you get
both outputs pie and tart
like either or you go for either you go
for a or one both of them will
tell you pie tart or pie dart
uh i'm not sure um i mean
even if you were to do that then you you
can't compress these it's not that you
could get a dynamic program where you
can sort of collapse these hypotheses
because the hidden states both these
those two hypotheses would still be
different um
depending on which path you took
together uh
so i don't know but hopefully this
illustrates might be in search
okay okay
okay any more questions on this
um
[Music]
okay this is a bit more description of
how the algorithm looks um
basically all you do is every time step
you generate
a distribution of next words three
hypotheses you have
and then you take the top k hypothesis
next words across all your hypotheses
and pull these before you go to the next
word
all right so
um all right so being said sometimes the
right thing to do
but um often it actually isn't
uh so this is the result of flying beam
search
to the example i showed you before so
this example from gpd2 about like
scientists finding
unicorns in the andes um
you can see here that the bottles
actually
it starts out putting some good stuff
and gets stuck in this weird feedback
loop
um
so i think yes we're just
gonna repeat the same phrase over and
over and over again i'll probably just
keep on repeating this phrase
forever i mean i guess kind of what's
going on here like once you said this
phrase
twice maybe it's just saying the third
time is
actually the most likely thing to do and
then all these other hypotheses get very
high prob
transitions get right have probability
even if they're not good
but there's also kind of a slightly
different problem which is like maybe
in some cases we don't actually want the
most likely sequence after all um
maybe what we want is something
interesting so
you see this problem also a lot in like
things like dialogue response generation
so
you're trying to build a world hold
conversation with someone and if you do
this kind of beam search often what
you'll get is it will just
give you the most generic response to
anything you say
so whatever you say it'll be like oh
that's interesting
thanks and maybe that actually genuinely
is the most likely thing
to do because these responses are good
in
most situations um however that's not
actually
a very good experience or a very good
system
so how about if instead of taking the um
max we're going to sample from the model
distribution instead
um so this is a
conceptually kind of appealing but it
doesn't actually give you very good
output so
uh this is again
the result sampling on that same input
um
i mean so this is kind of good but then
it goes kind of
uh it gets more weird and degenerate as
it goes on
um
and again you get to now problem where
like once you sample the bad choice
then the moles in state was never in
training
um and then once it's not stages in
during training it's more likely to give
you support bad output and you'll get
stuck in these
horrible feedback loops
okay um
all right so here's something that
actually does work because it was used
to get you those
uh beautiful outputs we had before
um unfortunately it's not very
satisfying technique but
it's a disclosure um so it's called top
pay sampling it's
used introduced by uh angela fan a
couple years ago
um basically top case sampling what
we're going to do
is truncate our distribution to just
taking the k best
and then sample from that
um so this advantage of giving us kind
of diversity like choosing randomly
amongst like good options but tries to
stop us kind of uh
falling off this kind of manifold and
actually good language but
when we sample something bad um so the
only basis just chop off the long tail
and just sample from the head of the
distribution and this is the sampling
for the beam search
is it uh sorry this is the beam switch
this is just um generation so
we're gonna um
there's not gonna be beam here this
could be one hypothesis
i guess you could it creates beam search
too but
uh this is actually pure sampling so
i can generate a word in this method
then use that to generate the next word
okay um so when you
uh do all that then this is finally the
technique that was used during this nice
sample
obviously this top case i'm playing it's
a bit of a hack it's not very satisfying
um i was um an author on my paper so i
can mean about the method
but um it does seem to work quite well
um i guess one thing to be aware of like
when you see these great samples and
things like this which
like openly i am very happy to put in
their publicity
uh it's kind of useful to know how it's
actually made
and this is like this is not like a real
sample from all distribution the model
is like not putting
uh and it must use probability mass on
this this is
generated by uh
doing this slightly weird inference
procedure with the model
um i just want to quickly cover like
all right so give us some text like this
how do we know if it's any good or not
like how do you evaluate this
um so like it's not
like evaluating launch model it's quite
easy i mean it's language modelling it's
task density estimation so you just
look at the look like here hold that
data
um if you want to do instead like
uh take some text to marvel and say if
it's any good or not then
uh this is not real and
uh it's kind of people tend to use like
these automated metrics like blue and
rouge which measure like
and grammar overlap with the reference
but
um they're not very satisfying
and this is recent research and trying
to do awesome asymmetrics
okay i should place me down for this
um all right so this is um that's
unconditional language models
um so they're generating samples of text
uh this actually isn't a very useful
thing to do what's much more useful is
uh conditional language models so models
which will give us a text
given some input generate use some
output so
for example you can think about things
like um
given a french sentence like translate
it into english i've given a document
generate a summary given a dialogue
generate the
next response or you can give it a
question i'll put the answer
so this is called sequence sequence
models
um because you get given some input
sequence and then you have to
generate some output sequence
um because the first models these are
introduced by elias giver
um look kind of like this with recurrent
neural networks where basically
you'd have some encoded network which
would read your inputs
produce some vector which you
marvelously called a
thought vector and then you'd use this
to initialize your decoder which would
generate tokens
by word again hopefully you get your
theme here
like carrying these kind of bottlenecks
and recurrence is not a good thing to do
uh you want to have expresso models
which you might see everything
uh so there's a variation transformer
for sequence sequence models
um here we're going to have a two stacks
an encoder stack and decode stack
uh basically the encoded stack is the
same as what i showed you before
apart from the self tension isn't masked
so every token the input can look at
every other token in the input
the decode stack will be similar except
that as well as doing the self tension
over itself
it's also going to do attention over
um the
complete inputs so this means that every
token output
has direct connection to every previous
token in the output
um and also to every word in the input
which makes these models very expressive
and powerful
translation scores over
the previous recurrent convolutional
models
so what we're trying these models
typically what we do is we rely on label
text so we
uh it's a string translation system for
example you
try and get lots of manually translated
text it turns out one of the best ways
to get this is things like parliament
proceedings because they always
translate
the european parliament or write
proceedings lots of different languages
um and then you just
use those as inputs and now however like
not all languages
are represented in the european
parliament um
so and these transformers are very data
hungry and like more texts can throw at
them the best they will do
um so this question like how we
use monolingual text to improve these so
this is actually saying it can we learn
without just having
input output pairs
uh the way we could do this is a
technique called back translation which
is
quite simple conceptually that's our
goal is to train a translation system
that
inputs german and we'll output english
um first of all we're going to actually
do the opposite we're going to train a
reverse translation model which will
give an english output german
then we can then run this model over
all the english texts we can find and we
can uh
find a lot of english text on the
internet and we'll translate it all in
german
um and that gives us like lots more
pairs of
english and german text and then we're
going to train a forward model or try
and translate this german into english
um the next thing to see here is
that it doesn't actually matter how good
the
initial model is right it doesn't matter
if the your reverse model is making
mistakes
um so if your reverse model makes
mistakes then your final train data will
contain kind of
noisy german translates to clean english
um
which might even help regularize your
model but probably
shouldn't pass its performance when you
show it
a clean german data what's a byte text
oh i'm sorry um a bitex just means a
parallel
text so the same sentences
in two different languages okay
thanks
okay um and the nice thing about
translation is that
the outputs you get are actually always
uh you know
high quality because these are the
outputs of the system
i think to you
uh sentences you found in the wild on
the internet
you're just going to create some noisy
inputs that you can use for these
pair of these outfits
um could you go back a slide
the third point translate billions of
words of english to german is that
through the reverse translation model
exactly yeah okay cool
uh and you're saying back translation
helps
uh generate higher quality translations
uh because of regularization
is that it ah it's not just
recognization it also the
really useful thing is it gives you lots
of clean output data
so let's say you ought to be a good
german between the translation model
you kind of need both to understand
german
we'll also be able to write lots of
fluent english as well and then
the english grammar team and the back
translation gives you a way of
incorporating tons of
additional language data beyond what you
have translations for
um okay so kind of
combines translation volatile language
model and you can also
um iterate this procedure too so you can
uh use it use that whole sense of
describe before to train a better model
and then
uh
do this to help you generate better
translate better back translations which
you can use to train again
and this can be really helpful i mean it
helps even in english german but it's
particularly helpful in cases
where you don't have much data so this
is on a bernie's to english translation
where there isn't a lot of parallel data
but you can
uh get really large improvements by
just iterating back translation uh this
was recent work from fair which i
forgot to reference for
um and again here are some results on uh
uh i think this is english german
showing some good improvements
uh one of the direction um in machine
translation people are exploring now is
a
massively multilingual mt so people are
trying to
not just translate between two languages
but trying to
take dozens of 100 languages and try and
train a single neural network that could
translate between all of these
um and if you do this you start see um
a big improvement particularly in
languages where you don't have much tags
presumably the model's learning some
kind of
more general language independent
information
okay so the last topic i want to cover
in this is a really important one which
is that self-supervised learning
um all right so um young is just seeing
this cake now but i think it's actually
a good image for this so the idea is
[Music]
um really that to
learn stuff like most of the information
we need is going to be most learning we
do has to be unsupervised so
we have huge amounts of text without any
labels on it
and we just have a little bit of um
sort of super frustrating data that's
represented by the cake here being the
unsupervised learning and the
supervised learning just being a little
bit of icing on top of the cake
i think actually um the recent person's
self-supervised learning from nlp has
really proved this metaphor to work
okay so
um i'm going to describe quite a few
methods for how you do self-supervised
learning for nlp um
just so you can try and get some ideas
as to what's actually working
uh so
uh the first one to describe is word to
back um
so the area of words back was trying to
i think it's really the first paper that
showed
uh got people excited about sales
surprise landing in lp
uh vern have his previous work from uh
culver and western which had
also shown some good gains um
so the goal here is going to be trying
to learn what's called word embedding so
brexit space recitations for words
and the hope is
by that by looking at unlabeled english
text we can learn something about what
these words mean
that's what the intuition behind all
this is that if two words are
ok close together in the text then
they're likely to have some kind of
relationship between each other
um so the pre-training task we're going
to do is going to be a filling in the
blanks task
so um in this sentence i'm going to
mask out this word in the middle which
is unicorns and try and predict what
this word should be
based on the surrounding context and
hope would be that
words like unknown silver hair and hand
will somehow
are more likely to occur in the context
of a unicorn than they are
i know a word like
some other animal
um so basically this is gonna be a very
simple model where basically we're gonna
take all these context words
we're gonna apply some linear projection
to these and
map the allowance of fixed size context
and then just do a softmax over our
vocabulary
uh so it looks a little bit like a
convolutional language model the only
difference is we're predicting the word
riddle not the word of the end um
any practice this model was um just a
shallow linear projection and didn't
was not a very deep model
okay um so
one of the things we find interesting
about this was these um wordy weddings
to show some
kind of surprising stretches to them uh
i'll show you how it was fun this is
like
people debated about how meaningful is
this um
but basically the claim was that if you
took you're invading the word
king which you train like this and you
subtract you're ready for word man then
you add the embedding of the word woman
you'll get something that's fairly close
to the embedding for the word queen
so somehow um
it's just this kind of unsupervised fill
in the blanks learning task
isn't using this kind of linear
structure with kind of meaningful
differences between vectors
okay so i mean this
was great and the really good thing
about this was that it's a really really
fast thing to do so you could train this
on
billions of words texts you back in
2013.
um but there's a big limitation which is
these word
writings are independent of the context
so
um you get like one vector per word in
your vocabulary
um but it doesn't know anything about
how that word relational works
and we know that to in language like
um a sentence is involved in just by
words it depends
each word interacts with other words
somehow
and these interactions are in some way
it's a really powerful thing
so in one example
obvious example is like ambiguous words
so lots of words can have many different
meanings
and these word vectors won't capture
that
or the best let's be superstition of all
the meanings
so how do we add context to these well
um
see the most obvious way is to
do a line as well i think i'm missing a
slide here uh basically
what we do is train a conditional
language model sorry an unconditional
language model this is going to
be exactly the kind of model i described
earlier in the talk
and then um
given this language model blindfold will
be outputting hidden states every
time step predicting the next word and
instead when we want to sell supervised
learning what we're going to do is
replace these outputs with um
some other output that depends on our
task so the pre-training phase is just
going to be predict the next word
but then kind of the icing on the cake
or supervised learning will be the
predicts some other property so i'll
show you an example here for a task
called
speech tagging which is trying to say
put some labels in every word here
so turn light label
scientists and noun and distinctive as
an adjective
um but you can actually fit all kinds of
tasks into this kind of framework
um so for example maybe you can fit
something like
this is a sentiment analysis task where
you're given some text to predict
like from an amazon review and predict
the
uh rating so
um this is a review that says what can i
say about its banana slicer that hasn't
already been said about the real
penicillin or the iphone and this review
got five stars
so here was you're going to predict one
output from this language model which is
going to be the
uh a token at the end
which you can some kind of test specific
label
so one of the really nice things about
this approach called gpt
was that it kind of eliminated tasks
specific modeling so now suddenly we
have
one model which you can pre-train and we
can that fine tune as well to do
basically
any task we want to do little
classification
um so before this
um there's actually a few years when
people were building all these crazy
architectures that you build
different architectures to do build a
quest answering model let's do a
sentiment analysis pro model or
something um now you train
creating one big model and then it's
really easy to find units do whatever
you like
so that was a really big step forward
um unfortunate model has kind of the
obvious limitation i said the important
thing to do was kind of contextualize
words so like let words know
build word recitations depend on the
context but
if you appreciate this language model
you can only really condition on your
left with context
so your expectations for each word
necessarily can't depend on the
representation for
any future words
um
and that kind of limits what the model
can do quite a lot
um there's one kind of obvious fix to
that which is um
the approach taken by elmo
um so elmo run the training one left to
right language model
um also train the second language model
which operates
in the reverse direction so this is like
um
so it's the last word in document and it
keeps trying to create the previous ones
and then you get word recitation by
concatenating the output layers of your
left right model and your right left
model
uh so this model is in some ways better
in that like now your word
representations
can't condition on local context and are
right with context
and that's really helpful for lots of
tasks
but it's still kind of limited and that
you don't really much like interactions
in these contexts so these
um you get this shallow kind of
concatenation of left
representation the right representation
and what you really do is having like
rich interactions between the left
context and the right context
right um and all this brings me to birth
which is
uh maybe you've heard of which has made
a very big difference in lp
um so
bit actually looks quite a lot like word
effect is basically a fillable blanks
task so you take some text
you hide some tokens by masking them out
and then you just try and fill it in the
mask so
here's text like something is a golden
something muppets
and you fill in there yeah
the thing i want you to notice is
firstly it actually looks quite a lot
like word to back
um wordsworth was also given some text
fill in the blanks
um the reasons works much better is that
in words event you would just had this
linear projection like
including the context words whereas you
have them
a very large transformer uh which look
in much more context and well much
lower interactions in that context
so there is a question here how are
contextual representations maintained
when fine-tuning for a specific task
um how are they maintained um
i guess um it's not clear they are
maintained um
so when you find your particular task
you kind of hook them all to learn
enough general stuff that language
the pre-trained task and then doing the
fine tuning probably i guess it's
forgetting a lot of stuff but it doesn't
need to solve this
particular task so
if you're fighting a sentiment analysis
or something it could probably
probably kind of lose a lot of this
information during fine tuning
that seems fine thanks
okay um
so but it worked very well um they gave
like quite large improvements on a bunch
of tasks
um it was actually achieving the
performance of humans or at least
humans approximated by amazon mechanical
tech
on a bunch of important uh questionnaire
benchmarks
but um burt was definitely not the end
of the story here um
but i've lots of people very excited
about self supervised training
um so just to quickly summarize details
there so
it's very simple model is just going to
mask out 15 of the tokens
and try and fill in the masks
um to build on that um doesn't work at
facebook uh yeah by led by year hanlon
which looked at scaling up birds um
so can you tell the combination actually
actually has second pre-training
objective which we showed didn't
actually help
so can i read can i ask a question for
the slide
so there there were three bars i think i
missed one point
the the dark blue what is the dark blue
so we have amazon twerk there
thank you sorry i said that um dark blue
hair is previously that so
okay which was um
these models were probably elmo which is
oh yeah okay
so previously i was definitely using
cell surprise training
but uh but improved relevant by having
this kind of like
i see and grew actually it's a benchmark
that we've been uh creating here at
nyu exactly some students were involved
yeah so
yeah glue is a big benchmark it's very
important
okay um so to beat but it turned out all
you had to do was firstly
simplify training objective then just
scale it up so
scaling up here means bigger batch sizes
uh huge numbers of gpus
more free training text and
then um you get very large gains on top
of
work so yellow here is then this new
reversal model
and uh actually roberta
the question answering is like
superhuman by quite a few points and
also on this blue benchmark from nyu is
also uh
outflowed people
and this isn't really about doing
anything smart it's just
taking self supervised training and
doing it more
alright um how why why do you say like
if you go on this slide here so there is
a very large improvement between
uh bert and then roberta in the gloom
but not such a
huge uh change maybe in the squad or is
it just a zooming factor
i'm like um
maybe it's just a zooming factor right
those bars on the left are taller maybe
yeah i think
maybe the scales distorting i think the
point is
if compared to human performance um
i know um but what 0.6 points best of
the people whereas
roberta is uh three and a half points
better
so by that metric is actually quite a
big jump
okay uh so
let's quickly discuss a few of the other
things people have
been doing still surprise training and
so there's one called excel now um
basically so input when you predict all
the mass tokens you predict
all the masks conditionally
independently
um excel net has a trick lets you
contact these mass tokens auto
regressively but in random order
and they claim some improvements from
doing that
it's also uh spam dirt which uh rather
than masking out words you're gonna mask
out
a sequence of consecutive words um there
is electron which
um rather than
masking words we're going to substitute
words with
sort of similar ones and then have a
binary classification problem to tell
you which
word's changed or not uh
it's albert which is um burt but you
title the weights across layers um also
um xlr and xlr which looking to
do this multilingually it turns out
basically you run the
pre-training objective but rather's
feeding in english text you
feed in text in every language you can
find it does a great job
learning cross-linked structure
um
the key point what you take from this is
really like these are all kind of
variation
um there's
but in the end like lots of different
things work and the important thing is
you have
big models you have bi-directional
interactions between the words
and you uh if anything the scale you do
this
is the most important thing
um so
one limitation these models i described
is they're only doing kind of text
classification problems
but often we'll want to do
problems where the output isn't the
classification problem is actually
output some more text
uh pre-training for sequence sequence
modeling
uh two papers came out about the same
time for this one which i was involved
in um
called birth and t5 um
so these models basically are going to
pre-train sequence sequence models by
denoising text
um the tree training objective looks
kind of like that basically all you're
going to do
is take some text corrupt it somehow by
applying
some kind of masking scheme and then
rather than
predict fill in the blanks you're going
to feed the corrupted text
into a cc model and try and predict
the complete outputs
and um
and this is kind of nice because then
you can actually go beyond just masking
text you can apply like any
random uh corruption thing that you want
so for example you can
shuffle sentences or delete whole
phrases or
it's a new phrases and the cc framework
is very flexible
um but it turns out just doing simple
masking actually
works about as well as anything else
um and then if you do this and as well
as like it
doing well things benchmarks like squad
and blue which classification benchmarks
you can also
get stage api results on um
tasks like summarization so um
where the output is attached so
on the left here we've got some length
of document we fight in we ask them all
to produce some kind of summary of this
and uh it is a great job like actually
uses context from across the whole
document and solves things like
co-reference and
generally as far as you can tell seems
to show some understanding of the inputs
um okay we're running out of time
um so briefly
um i don't think it's the end story like
the nlp is now solved
um a few open questions which i think
are interesting
including how do we integrate like
background knowledge into this do we
just want
these models to try and memorize the
whole internet or should we
build memory mechanisms somehow
uh as someone brought up earlier how do
we model long documents
we're typically doing 512 tokens here
how can we
do say a whole book at once
um one unsatisfying thing about this is
like we have like the same model
architecture can solve all kinds of
problems but it tends to not be able to
solve
all these problems at once and typically
you fine-tune a separate model for each
task
it would be great if you actually have
like one model solves everything
um and
um it's kind of related to that like we
basically get human level phones the
main task where you have say a hundred
thousand
uh labeled examples you're learning from
but
can we build miles will do well with
like 1000 or 10 or 1
labeled examples
and finally that people bring these
questions that's where these models are
just
actually understanding language i was
really good at breaking benchmarks
okay so to wrap up this
uh lecture um i think the main
takeaways from this uh um
[Music]
these kind of low bias models like
transformers work great we shouldn't try
to
explicitly model linguistic direction we
should have
very express models and show them lots
of text and let them
learn whatever structure they need um
predicting words and texts is a great uh
unsupervised learning objective um
but if you want to understand what's
crucial to like incorporate words in
context
in particular bi-directional context
okay so that's all i have to thank you
very much for listening
let's see if we have some questions now
i think there will be
several thank you mike
yeah there's a whole bunch of
discussions while we while you're
talking okay links to various papers
and explanations of various concepts in
the background
okay um any more questions uh yeah i
had one um on one of the open questions
it's
like understanding whether or not these
models are
actually uh understanding the language
what are some ways that exist right now
to quantify and measure that
um and how like how
how would we do that yeah okay so
what typically happens is someone says i
know
these models aren't signing language if
they could they'd be able to solve this
new task
that they're introducing then they
introduce some
new tasks which they can't do and then
say
bert isn't doing it then next week
someone trains a bigger model
and then actually gets human performance
on this task
and i think really
what's happening is like some people
just have intuitions that
this kind of these neural networks can't
be understanding language
and they must just be gaming data sets
somehow
and the extent that these models do well
there must be kind of weird biases in
our data sets and make
the moles can exploit without really
understanding anything
um and it's definitely true that like a
lot of my data sets
do have biases in them and like it's
kind of hard to make ones that don't do
it thanks a lot skill but
on the other hand it's like people are
failing to produce good cancer examples
so what these models can't do
like basically
sorry it's a good example in recent
times was the
winner glad schema results where
you know winograd schemas are those
sentences that are ambiguous and there
is a reference there is a
pronoun that refers to one of the words
and you can tell
which word the pronoun refers to unless
you know something about how the word
works right so
the standard example is uh the trophy
doesn't fit in the suitcase because it's
too large
or the trophy doesn't fit in the
suitcase because it's too small
and you know in in one case the the
trophy
refers to the the the pronoun refers to
the trophy in the other case it refers
to the
the suitcase and there was a list of
those and people
created a data set of those things and
until about two years ago
the best results were around 60
for computers humans do 95 or something
but um the best uh uh
the best you know artificial systems
were getting about 60
and now i think it's about 90 percent
yeah
right yeah something like that right you
don't even get any training dates for
these
this is just a purely unsupervised
problem right and so
so the question is you know it's clear
that those systems have learned
something about
uh the role of objects and you know
a little bit about how the world works
by just observing statistics about text
but it's relatively superficial it's not
um
i mean you know as it's pretty obvious
when you look at text that's generated
uh you know we're talking about unicorn
and then the first sentence is uh
unicorns has four horns right which of
course doesn't make sense because
unicorns have only one
that's kind of the point of being a
unicorn so um
so the whole idea of i mean the whole
con problem of learning common sense
uh has not been solved very far from it
but those systems but they work
surprisingly well i mean it's
surprisingly it's surprising how far you
can go with
just you know looking at text
[Music]
yeah i mean learning common sounds super
hard because in some sense the things
you want to learn
are things that aren't written down like
no one ever writes down
common sense knowledge yeah probably no
one ever writes down like a unicorn has
exactly one-on-one and not for i mean
it's just because everyone knows that um
so probably there are limitations to
what you can learn from just
looking at text but can you can you tell
us something about the
the word i mean about some of the work
you're doing on sort of grounded
language
uh sure yeah so i mean um
i put nothing back grounding in this um
but there's a whole
interesting topic and so i think it's
really interesting trying
no no i'm just like producing texts they
create people don't use text because
it's like
it's a recitation of the world um
so one type of guy's really interested
in like trying to like kind of
ground dialogue usage and goals so um
run some people like chit chat systems
that talk to each other
or talk to people to have a conversation
like can you build systems
where you try to achieve some goal um we
had some work a couple years ago and
doing a
this in the context of negotiations so
trying to
um there's two of you which are
trying to have a conversation just kind
of crank on some agreement with each
other
um and the only way you can come to
agreement is by
having a dialogue in natural language
and there's like some outcomes which are
good for use and what's good for them
you have to find some compromise
um and then yeah i'm kind of interested
in the setting
because
um yeah it seems like
you actually using length for a purpose
is gonna be really crucial to a really
understanding
things like i think
that's going to get hints like there's
limits to what we'll learn from just
like purely observational use language
and so just purely
seeing text out there in the world that
other people wrote like really
to understand things you want to be
agents which
are using language to try and choose
some goal and interact with people and
seeing what works and
learning from that kind of signal as
well um
maybe that's it's just the cherry on the
icing on the cake or whatever but i
think that's
it is that you need a cherry
more questions from the audience come on
guys don't be too shy
uh i have a question uh
the first point on the open questions
how should we
integrate world knowledge so uh the way
i i was thinking about is that
these billion parameter transformers
have
so much information about the world in
them and then if we
try to fine-tune or train this model
on some new data could we like forget
some of the earlier concepts that
uh this model had learnt and how would
we like quantify
what concepts like
has the model forgotten apart from the
validation set
does that make sense um
yeah so probably you will forget i mean
probably if you fine-tune this model to
do
something that doesn't need well
knowledgeable happily forget
all the knowledge you told it um
i mean there's some evidence these moles
are like memorizing quite a lot of facts
so there's a remarkable
uh result recently from this paper this
google system called t5 which i think is
12 billion parameters
and it's just trained in a
self-supervised way and if you have
people
and then you um just fine tune to answer
questions
which good questions about anything but
you don't show it any
you don't show up wikipedia or something
to let you know you just like see what's
memorized and
you can test how much knowledge is in
the model from that
and um it's not safety after that but it
like
it's kind of scarily good it's like
it turns out if you have 12 billion
parameters you train for a long time you
can't just
fit huge numbers of facts into these
levels
i'm not sure it's like the most
desirable way necessarily to memorize
knowledge but
um seems
somewhat effective
okay that was it thank you everyone for
attending
thank you so much mike for uh for giving
a guest lecture
um it's good to hear that stuff from the
horse's mouth
and we'll see
see everyone again next uh next week
we're gonna we'll actually tomorrow
right tomorrow we're gonna be
implementing everything from scratch
don't forget so tomorrow you get the
gory details from the code side of all
of this
and then uh monday you'll hear from
you'll hear about
graph neural nets from the vibration
actually about graph neural net and
graph knowledge is that
is graph knowledge used for language as
well somehow because
right i i don't know i have not really
uh
knowledgeable about this part of the
field well so
you can view to some extent you can view
all the those supervised training in
text
uh like what to vac uh bert et cetera
they use a graph and the graph is
how uh you know how often two words
appear next to each other
or some distance away from each other in
the text
that's you know the graph of similarity
between words basically is determined by
how far you know how often they're they
appear nearby
yeah that's that's when you decide to
put them in the input of a neural net
because they appear you know within the
sequence so you can think of
those those those are supervised
learning systems as
basically a very simple form of graph
neural net
well the graph always has the same
structure it's always linear but and it
always
uh indicates your your neighbors in a
text
all right thank you so much everyone
have a good evening
bye-bye